**Reading Response #2**

Ladies and gentlemen, due to John Berger explicitly expressing his curiosity about the world of paintings, his docuseries called Ways of
Seeing has already especially captured my interest as an artist, so I might as well hear out his narrative advice. The first art lesson 
Berger lectures to his viewers in his first episode, describes how European painting, or rather Western art in general, uses perspective 
to focus the visions of art lovers onto the visible world in front of them. But although Berger compared the perspectives of art to the 
light of lighthouses in terms of exporting transmitted messages, I feel as though the viewer is also a lighthouse in that they consume the 
stories of the art in question, and more importantly, they offer signs of appeal (or lack thereof) in return, with the signs ranging from 
praise to heated controversies. Anyway, with the invention of the camera now a reality, artists and their artworks are able to hold more 
exhibitions and conventions of more serious matters to this day. The camera has contributed this much effort in shaping the future the way 
it did by recording new images and reproducing old images, placing everything into new contexts with one another, and helping people view 
multiple perspectives of “the big picture” all at once (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pDE4VX_9Kk).

The second episode of Ways of Seeing might as well be known as Berger’s second major lesson on art and even feminism alike, for our host 
has seen for himself how art history has depicted both genders of men and women. Every time men and women see each other’s faces, they 
judge specifically on what women already and what they should be; as a matter of fact, one of the most recognizable trends between women 
and art demands that women be nude and vulnerable, let alone dependent, if they wish to be with men of high places in society. This 
attitude of men towards women regarding gender-based strength of character, must have been one major cause for the infamous damsel-in-
distress archetype, a plot for storybooks and paintings alike where a villain holds an innocent young female captive, and would usually be 
thwarted by a male rescuer with negative emotional issues. Fortunately, feminism of the 20th and 21st centuries has come to help address 
the historic and controversial relationship between the two genders, and Ralph Breaks the Internet personally helps me feel good about 
myself by teaching me that people can adopt new roles in society, like empowered damsels and men positively expressing their insecurities 
verbally, not physically (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m1GI8mNU5Sg).

Even before getting the chance to watch Berger’s third episode of Ways of Seeing, high school art class already taught me how artists risk 
painting super-realistic pictures of shiny private processions, all in the needy (or greedy) of money instead of in the name of human 
generosity. Likewise, however, I never even thought until now that realist paintings have also been historically connected to the 
invention of oil paint, allowing painters to design ever more visual treasures worthy of patronage (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z7wi8jd7aC4&t=1348s). 
It is a good thing then that I recognize the old-school values of painting anyway, to thank oil paintings for having become sacred relics 
that still teach us about the world around us and of its distribution of power (patrons paying their commissions to the most special 
artists of all); especially since today’s mostly capitalist world has replaced oil paintings with campaigns of publicity as the new 
advertisements. So, as Ways of Seeing’s fourth episode wraps up the series by building upon oil paintings and glamorous photography, I 
will have seen consumer society from views on both art and philosophy, compliments of award-winning host Mr. John Berger (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5jTUebm73IY).
